# Accompanying code to "Neuronal activation sequences in lateral prefrontal cortex encode visuospatial working memory during virtual navigation"

This repository contains the source code and data from: Busch, Roussy, Luna, Leavitt, Mofrad, Gulli, Corrigan, Mináč, Sachs, Palaniyappan, Muller, Martinez-Trujillo (2023) 
Neuronal activation sequences in lateral prefrontal cortex encode visuospatial working memory during virtual navigation. 

The source code demonstrates the main analysis from raster data to projection centroids for one example session of neural data. Then, it reproduces panels from main text figures 
3,4,6 using pre-processed data files containing the rest of the sessions. 

Installation only requires adding the files to the MATLAB path (done automatically where needed). Each script requires only a few minutes to run on a standard desktop workstation.

## Usage

There are two scripts contained in the main folder:
1) process_data.m demonstrates the complete analysis for one example session of neural data ( ./data/example_session.mat ). This analysis is repeated for each session to produce
the neural data files in the ./processed_data/ folder.
2) generate_figures.m builds panels from main text figures 3-5 using pre-processed data files contained in (./proccessed_data/). Running successive code blocks will produce the 
figure panels named at the top of each block.

There are three subfolders, which are added to the MATLAB path in the code as needed:
1) ./data/ contains one example recording session of neural data
2) ./helper_functions/ contains custom MATLAB functions required for the analyses 
3) ./processed_data/ contains these processed data files required to produce the figures. Each row of one of these data structures corresponds to the output of the analysis 
demonstrated in process_data.m for a different recording session. 

## Testing

Tested on MATALB (R2021a and R2023a) under macOS and Windows.

## Dependencies

The helper functions required to run this code are included in ./helper_functions/ and added to the path as needed. 
